>> Erik Reinert: Welcome everybody
to introduction to systems design,
focusing on architecture.
This course is primarily focused on
teaching and educating about architectural
backend system principles,
challenges, real-world applications,
while offering a detailed understanding
of when and how to implement them.
There's gonna be a lot of things
that we talk about in this course.
The main thing I want you to be able to
take away as a developer is to be able to
feel empowered on when and how to make
backend system architecture designs.
If you've ever felt like you've ever
been curious or ever wanted to build
larger scale systems, or build appropriate
systems for specific problems,
that's really a big part of this
course and walking away from it.
Before we get started,
I'd like to introduce myself.
Hello, my name is Eric Reinert, also
known as Blackglasses on the interwebs.
I'm a senior software engineer.
I work at a company called Hippo
where I do a lot of the practices and
methodologies that we're gonna be
talking about in the course today.
I'm also a content creator.
I stream and make videos on Twitch and
YouTube under the Alt-F4 Stream.
I'm a diagram and flowchart artist.
I really enjoy building diagrams and
flowcharts and
taking my mental images of how I wanna
build something and putting them to paper.
And I'm also a habitual problem solver, I
really like putting myself into situations
and trying to solve
problems the best I can.
Learning through that experience and
it's been a big part of how
I've grown as a developer.
If you're curious about finding any of
the content I created on the internet,
I've got a few links here that
you might be interested in.
First off is the Engineering Blog.
I have a company called Alt 4 LLC and
we build content creator tools
as well as other software.
And a big focus of this blog is to try and
educate people and how we do things and
how we tackle specific problems.
It's updated often and so if you're ever
curious about how we solve problems as
a company, it's a great resource.
I also stream on Twitch as I mentioned,
twitchtv/thealt4stream my
stream weekdays and weekends.
So if you're ever curious about any of
the stuff I'm working on or you wanna
learn more about what I'm doing, you
should always hop in chat and say hello.
I'm also on Twitter,
although I don't really call it X.
I do tweet on Twitter, so if you're ever
curious about what I'm doing or again,
any of the projects I'm working on,
you can check that out.
As well as YouTube, where I upload a lot
of videos about things that I'm working on
and projects I have interest in and
things like that.
To give you a little bit of background of
where I started and where I've come from.
I first started my career with frontend.
I started doing that for about two and
a half years at a company called
Media Temple, where I was heavily
focused in building PHP frontends and
slowly moving to JavaScript.
This was a time when React was
kinda just coming out, and so
I was a part of that transition from
moving backend frontends to fully client
based JavaScript frontends.
A big part of what I do and
my interests and how I kind of follow my
career path is also that I'm
really driven by my curiosity.
And so after I did frontend for a few
years, I found myself wanting to take new
steps into different parts of
the software development stack.
And one of those was backend,
which is a lot of what we're
gonna be talking about today.
I spent about two and
a half years working on backend systems.
I worked at a company that was a startup
where I was really in charge of building
a lot of those systems and working
with a lot of different new things,
like geolocation and hailing and
all this kinda stuff.
After working in backend for
two and a half years, again,
I wanted to follow my curiosity
with a lot of my interests.
And one of that interests was saying,
okay, I've worked in frontend.
I've worked in backend, now I'd like to
know what it's like doing full stack.
I spent two and
a half years doing that as well.
I worked at another startup where I had a
lot of responsibilities around prototyping
and building out new systems to try and
be as agile and
quick as we possibly could
to deliver things to market.
So I had a lot of experience and
got a lot of experience with
understanding how to move fast.
Understanding how to build small
systems and large systems.
And that again led me towards the next
phase of my career which was,
I'd like to really learn and
own this as more of a high level engineer.
And so
after I left the full stack position,
I started actually leaning more towards,
DevOps and Platform Engineering,
which I've been doing for
the last four and a half years.
My current job is heavily focused on a lot
of those challenges, whether it be how
do we improve developer flows, how do we
build new systems that developers use.
As well as how do we build new
systems that users use and
how do we join those together
in a cohesive experience.
And that really brought me
to even where I am today,
where I slowly stepped away from
implementation and writing code and
become much more passionate about
developing the architectures.
The systems, the scalability of the
systems, the robustness of them, which is
really what brings us to the course
that we're gonna be going over today.
>> Erik Reinert: I do have two
existing courses on Frontend Masters,
if you are curious.
And what's really great about these
courses is they're all kind of themed
around a lot of the same things.
The first course is an introduction
to DevOps for developers,
where I talk about taking your
first steps into DevOps basically,
from a perspective of a developer.
DevOps is a really thrown around word,
and it's kind of not really well defined.
And my goal in this course was
really to help you walk away,
understanding what DevOps
actually means for a company.
How to use these practices and principles
to help grow the developer experience as
well as internal systems and
things like that.
And a lot of that course should
help you understand how you define
DevOps at a company.
I also have a course called
enterprise cloud infrastructure.
Again, I try and really work and
educate around the things that I know.
That's where I feel like I have
most of my confidence, and so
enterprise cloud infrastructure was
really the next step for my career,
which was learning how to use DevOps and
use it at a large scale.
Learning how to do things like set
up large scale systems with GitOps,
optimizing CI/CD workflows, standardizing
strategies for an organization,
and how to handle, cloud resource
management and other things like that.
And I think if you're
interested in more of a scale,
you wanna learn how to take a company and
grow it to a much higher
automated process based system.
Enterprise cloud infrastructure's
a really great course for that and
it should be something that you
can take to almost any company.
And be confident that you can grow that
company to the scale that it needs.
So the first goal of this course is to
define what backend system architecture
designs are.
How you're gonna build something if you
don't fully know what something is?
And so the first thing I wanna be able to
do is help you define what these things
are and what these tools are.
From there,
I wanna help you define when to use
backend system architecture designs.
There are situations where you might be in
a circumstance where you do need to create
designs for a specific problem that
a company might need to solve, or
a specific challenge
that you're dealing with.
And so this section of the course should
help you understand when you should
actually pull the trigger on completely
designing something from scratch,
doing small iterative changes and
things like that.
After we define the what and the when,
we're gonna define the how, right?
So now that you understand
what backend systems are, and
now that you'll understand
when to use them.
We'll show you how to implement
those backend systems, step-by-step
considerations, things that you should
be thinking about, best practices.
The goal here is that, this should help
you feel empowered to actually start
taking the steps of solving the problems
you need to at an organization.
There's also a second part of this course,
which is really focusing on exploring
common backend system architecture
designs, things like microservices,
monoliths, serverless.
These are all a lot of the things that
we're used to talking about today and
that are growing in our industry.
And so I help you understand what
these are and how they're useful.
At the end of the course,
we also showcase the evolution of
a backend systems architecture.
So we talk about where most systems
normally start whether it be from
a modelist or a service perspective
to moving to servers or serverless,
or vice versa moving backwards,
moving forwards.
The idea is just to kinda show you
that this is a fluid evolution that
happens over a period of time.
It's not just a designated
step-by-step-by-step, but
it's really about use case of starting
from one, growing to another, and then
growing even further as the company grows
and the requirements for that company.
Are there pre-requisites for the course?
There aren't many, but
I do think that it would help to
have a basic understanding
of software development.
If you've never built software before or
anything like that,
this might be a little difficult for
you because a lot of this is high level.
A lot of this is conceptual and
kinda helps you get you in the mindset
of how to solve these problems.
So if you have a good understanding
of software development,
that'll definitely help.
On top of that, a basic understanding
of backends versus frontends, again,
we're gonna be focusing very
heavily on backends today.
However, there will be a course on
Frontend Masters in the near future about
frontend systems designs that you guys
should check out as well which should pair
really well with this course.